# TemperaturLogger
Temperature Logger” uses BMP180 interfaced with ESP8266 which pushes the collected data to the different cloud based services like MQTT, Firebase and IFTTT


ESP8266 is a MCU and helps for tethering hotspot.BMP 180 is a piezo-resistive sensor which measures the temperature, pressure and altitude above the sea level after converting it from Analog to digital, which is then passed to the MCU memory and that value can be seen by connecting to its IP address on a browser. Or we can send the data directly to the cloud (like MQTT) for further use.

ESP8266
Espressif Systems’ Smart Connectivity Platform (ESCP) is a set of high performance, high integration wireless SOCs, designed for space and power constrained mobile platform designers. It provides unsurpassed ability to embed WiFi capabilities within other systems, or to function as a standalone application, with the lowest cost, and minimal space requirement.
ESP8266EX offers a complete and self-contained WiFi networking solution; it can be used to host the application or to offload WiFi networking functions from another application processor. When ESP8266EX hosts the application, it boots up directly from an external flash. In has integrated cache to improve the performance of the system in such applications. Alternately, serving as a WiFi adapter, wireless internet access can be added to any micro controllerbased design with simple connectivity (SPI/SDIO or I2C/UART interface). ESP8266EX is among the most integrated WiFi chip in the industry; it integrates the antenna switches, RF balun, power amplifier, low noise receive amplifier, filters, power management modules, it requires minimal external circuitry, and the entire solution, including front-end module, is designed to occupy minimal PCB area. ESP8266EX also integrates an enhanced version of Tensilica’s L106 Diamond series 32-bit processor, with on-chip SRAM, besides the WiFi functionalities. ESP8266EX is often integrated with external sensors and other application specific devices through its GPIOs; sample codes for such applications are provided in the software development kit (SDK). Espressif Systems 6/31

Features • 802.11 b/g/n • Integrated low power 32-bit MCU • Integrated 10-bit ADC • Integrated TCP/IP protocol stack • Integrated TR switch, balun, LNA, power amplifier and matching network • Integrated PLL, regulators, and power management units • Supports antenna diversity • WiFi 2.4 GHz, support WPA/WPA2 • Support STA/AP/STA+AP operation modes • Support Smart Link Function for both Android and iOS devices • SDIO 2.0, (H) SPI, UART, I2C, I2S, IR Remote Control, PWM, GPIO • STBC, 1x1 MIMO, 2x1 MIMO • A-MPDU & A-MSDU aggregation & 0.4s guard interval • Deep sleep power < 5uA • Wake up and transmit packets in < 2ms • Standby power consumption of < 1.0mW (DTIM3) • +20 dBm output power in 802.11b mode • Operating temperature range -40C ~ 125C • FCC, CE, TELEC, WiFi Alliance, and SRRC certified

Major Applications Major fields of ESP8266EX applications to Internet-of-Things include: • Home Appliances • Home Automation • Smart Plug and lights • Mesh Network • Industrial Wireless Control • Baby Monitors • IP Cameras • Sensor Networks • Wearable Electronics $ WiFi Location-aware Devices • Security ID Tags • WiFi Position System Beacons
